# Compatible structures of operads by polarization, their Koszul duality and Manin products

> **arXiv:** [2311.11394](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.11394)

**Authors:** Huhu Zhang, Xing Gao, Li Guo
**Published:** 2023-11-19
**Updated:** 2024-08-14
**Category:** math.CT
**Comment:** 29 pages
**Journal:** 

---

## Abstract

Algebraic structures with multiple copies of a given type of operations interrelated by various compatibility conditions have long being studied in mathematics and mathematical physics. They are broadly referred as linearly compatible, matching, and totally compatible structures. This paper gives a unified approach to these structures in the context of operads. We first generalize the process of polarization for polynomials in invariant theory to the one for operads, leading to the general notion of linearly compatible operads. Refining the polarization by partitioning it into foliations, we obtain a notion of matching operads consolidating those appeared recently from applications of regularity structures, and Volterra integral equations. Distinguished among them is the leveled matching compatibility, which is unique with respect to a fix ordering of the vertices in tree monomials. Equating all matching compatibilities of a given operad leads to the totally compatible operad of this operad.   For unary/binary quadratic operads, the linear compatibility and the total compatibility are in Koszul dual to each other, and there is a Koszul self-duality among the matching compatibilities. In particular, the leveled matching compatibility is Koszul self-dual. For binary quadratic operads, these three compatible operads can also be obtained by taking Manin black and white products. For some finitely generated binary quadratic operad, Koszulity is preserved under taking the compatibilities.

---

## Links
- [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.11394)
- [PDF](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2311.11394)
